Readme
========================================================

This is the output for the course project for [Getting and Cleaning Data](https://class.coursera.org/getdata-005).  The R script contained in this repo (run_analysis.R) creates two tidy data sets from raw accelerometer data from the "Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Data Set" by the Center for Machine Learning and Intelligent Systems at the University of California at Irvine.  

The data was collected from the embedded accelerometer and gyroscope on the Samsung Galaxy S 2 smartphone.

A full descripton of the original experiment is available [here](http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones) and the raw data from the experiment is available [here](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)

**Data source acknowledgement** 
*Davide Anguita, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Xavier Parra and Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz. Human Activity Recognition on Smartphones using a Multiclass Hardware-Friendly Support Vector Machine. International Workshop of Ambient Assisted Living (IWAAL 2012). Vitoria-Gasteiz, Spain. Dec 2012*

Description
--------------------------------------------------------
This repo contains the following files:
* MeansAndStandardDeviations.txt---The tidy data set generated by the run_analysis.R script.
* AverageMeansAndStandardDeviations.txt---The tidy data set averaged per activity and per subject generated by the run_analysis.R script.
* CodeBook.md---Explanations for the column names in the generated tidy data set.
* README.md---This file.
* run_analysis.R---The script that needs to be run. The script requies that the "data.table" package be installed before it is run.  The script loads the raw data in the "UCI HAR Dataset" subdirectory and produces the data in MeansAndStandardDeviations.txt and AverageMeansAndStandardDeviations.txt. 

Instructions
--------------------------------------------------------
1. Ensure that the data.table package is installed in your R environment.
2. Download the run_analysis.R
2. Set your R workspace to the same directory
3. Download the dataset from here: [UCI HAR Dataset.zip](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)
4. Unzip the dataset into a directory named "UCI HAR Dataset" within same directory that contains the run_analysis.R script (this is the default subdirectory created within the zip file.)
5. Execute run_analysis.R with the following R command: 
```R
source("run_analysis.R")
```

This will create two files.  The first is named "MeansAndStandardDeviations.txt" that contains a table with the means and standard deviations of various accelerometer measurements for all activities and subjects in the study.  The second file created is named "AverageMeansAndStandardDeviations.txt" and contains the average means and standard deviations for each activity and subject in the study.

System Information
--------------------------------------------------------
The script above was created with:
* RStudio version 0.98.953
* R version 3.1.0 (2014-04-10) -- "Spring Dance"
* Platform OSX x86_64-apple-darwin10.8.0 (64-bit)

